\input texinfo  @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename internals.info
@include version.texi
@settitle Rapid Scheme Internals
@syncodeindex pg cp
@copying
This manual documents the internals of Rapid Scheme (version
@value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}), which is an implementation of the
R7RS.

Copyright @copyright{} 2016 Marc Nieper-Wißkirchen.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Software development

@titlepage
@title Rapid Scheme Internals
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author M.A. Nieper-Wißkirchen (@email{marc@@rapid-scheme.org})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Rapid Scheme Internals

This manual documents the internals of Rapid Scheme (version
@value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).
@end ifnottex

@quotation Warning
This document is work-in-progress.  It does not necessarily describe the
current state of Rapid Scheme, but may describe a possible future state.
@end quotation

@menu
* Languages::
* Bootstrapping::
* Libraries::
* GNU Free Documentation License::
* Index::
@end menu

@node Languages
@chapter Languages

@menu
* R7RS Scheme::
* Rapid Scheme::
* Pre-Scheme::
* Core Scheme::
@end menu

The Rapid Scheme system deals with four Scheme dialects, namely
@emph{R7RS Scheme}, @emph{Rapid Scheme}, @emph{Pre-Scheme}, and
@emph{Core Scheme}.  For the end user, only the dialects R7RS Scheme,
and Rapid Scheme are relevant.

@quotation Note
The dialect @emph{Pre-Scheme} mentioned here is not related to the
@emph{Pre-Scheme} dialect of the Scheme 48 implementation of the Scheme
programming language.
@end quotation

@node R7RS Scheme
@section R7RS Scheme

@dfn{R7RS Scheme} is the Scheme dialect as described in the R7RS.

@node Rapid Scheme
@section Rapid Scheme

@dfn{Rapid Scheme} is a superset of R7RS Scheme. It is the dialect
supported by the full Rapid Scheme system.

@node Pre-Scheme
@section Pre-Scheme

@dfn{Pre-Scheme} differs from @dfn{R7RS Scheme} in the set of standard
libraries.  Most notably, @code{eval} in Pre-Scheme does not support the
@var{environment} argument and accepts only an @var{expression} written
in Core Scheme.

@node Core Scheme
@section Core Scheme

@dfn{Core Scheme} is very simplified dialect of Scheme.  Contrary to the
other dialects mentioned in this chapter, Core Scheme only deals with
expressions, does not have the standard R7RS module system, and all
calls are tail calls.

@node Bootstrapping
@chapter Bootstrapping

@menu
* Programs::
* Build process::
@end menu

This chapter describes how the Rapid Scheme system is bootstrapped.

@node Programs
@section Programs

@table @code
@item rapid-compiler
This program is written in R7RS Scheme, and compiles
a program written in Pre-Scheme to a C program.

@item rapid-scheme
This program is written in Pre-Scheme, and expands programs written in
Rapid Scheme into Core Scheme and evaluates them.  This is the main
program of the Rapid Scheme system.
@end table

@node Build process
@section Build process

The Rapid Scheme system is built by the following steps. 

@enumerate
@item
An existing R7RS Scheme implementation is used to run the program
@code{rapid-compiler}, which is then invoked on the program
@code{rapid-scheme}.

@item
The resulting C program is compiled into a native binary using the
native C compiler.

@item
The resulting @code{rapid-scheme} binary can be used to run the
@code{rapid-compiler} program used in the first step.

@item
The C program that results from the first step is shipped with the next
version of Rapid Scheme.
@end enumerate

@node Libraries
@chapter Libraries

@menu
* Feature identifiers::
* Library search directories::
@end menu

@node Feature identifiers
@section Feature identifiers

The following feature identifiers can be used to detect the Scheme
dialect and the available library exports.

@table @code
@item r7rs
This feature identifier is provided by the dialects R7RS Scheme and
Rapid Scheme.

@item rapid-scheme
@item rapid-scheme-@value{VERSION}
These feature identifiers are provided by the dialect Rapid Scheme.

@item rapid-pre
@item rapid-pre-@value{VERSION}
These feature identifiers are provided by the dialect Pre-Scheme.
@end table

@node Library search directories
@section Library search directories

@table @code
@item src/runtime/lib
This directory contains library definitions that are for Rapid
Scheme and Pre-Scheme.

@item src/compiler/lib
This directory contains library definitions for R7RS Scheme, Rapid
Scheme, and Pre-Scheme.
@end table

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@unnumbered GNU Free Documentation License

@include fdl.texi

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
